Incoming livestream: Okay, thanks. Yeah, so I'm Nicholas, I'm at Anthropic, and I'm gonna spend a little bit of time, just talking about some of the things that I'm interested in in language model security. And I guess the thing that I've been caring about most recently has been, I guess, I don't know, calling it black hat language models, but just…
Incoming livestream: Trying to understand
Incoming livestream: how we can use language models in order to make them cause harm. Not because I want this to happen, right, that would be bad, but I want to understand what bad things people who wanted to cause harm would do, so that then we can make that not possible.
Incoming livestream: Okay.
Incoming livestream: Basic lesson I hope you take away from this talk is, relatively simple. Today, it is true that language models can autonomously
Incoming livestream: And without fancy scaffolding, find and exploit zero-day vulnerabilities in very important pieces of software. This is not something that was true even, let's say, 3 or 4 months ago, but it is now becoming true, and I think it will become only more true over the next couple of years.
Incoming livestream: And so the, like, I don't know, if this is, like, the main lesson, the real thing I want you to take away is that, like, they're getting really, really good really fast, and this means that the, like, nice balance we had between attackers and defenders over the last 20 years or so, seems like it's probably coming to an end.
Incoming livestream: And it really seems to me
Incoming livestream: like, the language models that we have now are probably, like, the most significant thing to happen in security, since we got the internet. You know, like, before we had the internet.
Incoming livestream: there was, like, not that much that you could do to attack someone else, like, you'd have to, like, send them a floppy disk or something.
Incoming livestream: You have now the internet, you can do remote attacks. Language models really feel to me to be something that's, like, roughly on this order of importance, which is not something that I believed, like, I don't know, 3 or 4 years ago. But the models have gotten really, really good, and I want to just give you a couple examples of what this is looking like.
Incoming livestream: Okay, so,
Incoming livestream: Let me show you how we've been finding some bugs in some really important software. And I'll show you what we found in just a second, but let me just, like, show you the scaffold that we've been using. here it is.
Incoming livestream: This is basically the entirety of it. You know, we have a couple more sentences here and there, but basically we run Cloud code, and we run it in a VM, dangerously skip permissions, just, like, let it do whatever it wants, and then we say, hey, you're playing in a CTF,
Incoming livestream: Please find a vulnerability and put the most serious one to this output file. Go. And then we sort of walk away, and we come back, and we read the vulnerability report, and usually it's, like, pretty good and has pronounced some pretty severe things.
Incoming livestream: And this basically works. Like, you can definitely do much better if you have fancier scaffolding.
Incoming livestream: You can definitely do it cheaper if you have fancier scaffolding. But you can do it just by, like, asking the model to find these bugs.
Incoming livestream: And the reason why that matters to me is because what I care about is, like, what is the base capability of the model? Because if someone who's malicious wants to go cause some harm, and they don't have to spend 6 months designing some fancy fuzzing harness or something, and they can just go do bad things with it, like, this is quite scary.
Incoming livestream: Okay. Small little problem, though, with this.
Incoming livestream: it's, like, a little deficient in two ways. One way is that, I can't do this at large scale, like, if I take a piece of software and I ask Claude to find the same vulnerable… find a bunch of vulnerabilities and run it multiple times, it will probably find the same bug each time.
Incoming livestream: I don't know, it just turns out to be the case that this is what happens. Also, like, it's just not very thorough. It will review some of the code, but not all of the code, and so we have a very simple trick for this, which is I'm just gonna add one more line, and I'm gonna say, like, hint, please look at this file foo.c.
Incoming livestream: And then what I can do is I wanted to, like, okay, now look at bar.c, now look at some other file, and I can just, like, do this for, like, all of the files in the project.
Incoming livestream: And then we'll find, and, like, look at least at all of them, and, like, this works quite well.
Incoming livestream: Okay.
Incoming livestream: We wrote a blog post where we talked about some things that we can find,
Incoming livestream: the blog post exists, so I'm not gonna tell you about the bugs that we had in there. We talked about a bunch of them, but it's been now roughly a couple weeks since this blog post came out, so I'd like to tell you about a couple new ones that have been fixed, that now we can talk about because, yeah, they've been patched.
Incoming livestream: So I'm gonna tell you in particular about two that I think are interesting. One, interesting because of how Claude could find an autonomous exploit, and one because of the vulnerability that it found is quite interesting.
Incoming livestream: So, first one, web apps. Okay, so I used to be a security person, web apps is, like, the thing that every security person always finds bugs in, they're really bad,
Incoming livestream: here's this content management system called Ghost. I hadn't seen it before, but, like, 50,000 stars on GitHub, it's, like, I don't know, apparently quite popular. Has never had a critical security vulnerability in the history of the project. We found the first one.
Incoming livestream: What's the vulnerability? The vulnerability, is SQL injection. It turns out that they were concatenating some strings, and some user input went into some SQL query.
Incoming livestream: everyone knows that this is, like, a problem. It's, like, not really a surprise to anyone, and yet, like, I don't know, like, they've been around for 20 years, and they're gonna be around for another 20, right? Like, this is not that surprising that the model can find these bugs.
Incoming livestream: But what's interesting to me is that this particular vulnerability, you can only exploit with a blind SQL injection, meaning I don't actually see the output, I can only observe, like, how long it takes in time, or crashes or not crashes.
Incoming livestream: And, I wasn't sure if this was exploitable, and so I wanted to, you know, send a good report to the maintainers. And so I was like, okay, like, is this some low-severity thing that, like, you know, maybe I can, like, leak a couple bits here and there, or is this really important? I asked the model, like, you know, give me the worst that you can.
Incoming livestream: And so it wrote me this. So, okay, here, let me play a demo.
Incoming livestream: I'm gonna launch, on this one window here, a Docker container that just is running Ghost. I have my own instance of it running now, I've logged in with admin, at example.co, yeah, with some, some, yeah, admin here, and then I run the exploit on, this thing. And, like, I wrote none of this code, and blind SQL injection, it just reads off the, like, complete credentials
Incoming livestream: from the production database, no authentication, it reads the admin API key and secret, which lets me mint arbitrary new things that I want. I can do now anything that I want to the production app, and it reads off the hash of the password. Okay, fortunately, it's bcrypt, you know, so that's good, but again, like, it sort of, like, gives you literally everything you could want from unauthenticated accounts.
Incoming livestream: And, like, I probably could have built this attack, like, this attack is not super hard, but, like, there's some amount of nuance you need in order to get this to go right, and, like, I didn't need any security experience in order to have this happen.
Incoming livestream: So, these models, like, are really quite good at actually implementing, these exploits now, and this sort of fundamentally changes the way that these things go.
Incoming livestream: So this is one example of an attack that was possible because the model was particularly good at doing the exploitation piece. Let me now spend a couple of minutes on another side, where it's particularly good because of the bugs it can find.
Incoming livestream: So, Linux kernel. One of, like, the most important pieces of software that we all use every day, very, very, very hardened.
Incoming livestream: we now have a number of remotely exploitable, heap buffer overflows in the Linux kernel. I have never found one of these in my life before. This is, like, I don't know, very, very, very hard to do,
Incoming livestream: with these language models, I have a bunch. Like, this is, I don't know, quite, quite scary to me. Let me walk you through one of them, which is in the NFS V4 daemon and the kernel.
Incoming livestream: And, pay attention to sort of how this attack works, and then remember in the back of your mind that a language model found this. Okay, so, you have a client connecting to the NFS server, and it sort of does the three-way thing, like, hello, I would like to talk to you, the server says okay, and then it responds.
Incoming livestream: And the client, it's, you know, talking to NFS, so it says, I'd like to open up this lock file, and the server says, great, and the client acknowledges that. And then it takes out a lock, and puts, as its name, a 1024 byte, sort of value of who the person is who owns the lock.
Incoming livestream: The service says it's granted, and so we're good here.
Incoming livestream: Then what the attacker does is it creates a second client, client B, that talks to the server.
Incoming livestream: Which again, says, hello, I'd like to go talk to you. The service says, great, I've acknowledged you as client B.
Incoming livestream: Client B says, I'd also like to take an open on this other lock, and the server says, great, you can do that. And, then takes the lock here. And at this point, client A already owns this lock, so you can't grant the lock also to client B, and so the server says, like, okay, like, deny the lock, this is not something that's allowed.
Incoming livestream: Except what happens…
Incoming livestream: is that the response that it's going to now send to client B is going to be something that's going to be, 1056 bytes long.
Incoming livestream: It's gonna have some offset and some length, and then it has this owner, and the owner is the bytes that came from the first attacker, and so those bytes are now copied here, and it turns out that it's gonna write this into a buffer of size 112, which gives you now a heap buffer overflow in the kernel. Okay, not that great.
Incoming livestream: A language model found this.
Incoming livestream: Like, this is not like a, like…
Incoming livestream: trivial bug. Like, you have to, like, understand that there are, like, two competing… two cooperating adversaries.
Incoming livestream: You know, like, who are, like, you know, one of them has a long thing here, and you send, like, you know, a bunch of packets over there. Like, you would never find this by fuzzing. And by the way, this entire slide was copy and pasted from the report that the language model wrote.
Incoming livestream: Like, it produced this very nice flow schematic, like, I literally just copied and pasted this. The model produced this schematic explaining to me how the attack works.
Incoming livestream: And so, like, it's really quite good at doing these kinds of things. Far better than I think people give them credit for. And so, like, when you're finding these bugs with these things, it's like…
Incoming livestream: we used to live in a world where we assumed that, like, we had to, like, hold their hand in order to help them, kind of like, you know, a fuzzer. You know, like, it can sort of do little things here and there, but no, like, it's… this is a bug. Here's the commit that introduced the bug.
Incoming livestream: Sorry, it's not a commit, it's a change set. Why is it a change set that introduced this bug? Because this bug predates Git.
Incoming livestream: Like, this bug has been in the kernel since 2003, it is older than some of you in this room.
Incoming livestream: Right? Like, this is, like, a really old bug that has been found by this, by the language models, right? Like, it's, like, a very non-trivial kind of thing that, like, the language models have been able to do here.
Incoming livestream: Right, like…
Incoming livestream: speechless, like, is, like, does not begin to describe, like, these models, like, really can do some very impressive things, and it's like, you know, we really need to start rethinking, the kinds of things that we should expect, because, I don't know, to spend, like, a little bit of time thinking forwards, like, we've only just seen the models that can do this, like, in the last couple of months.
Incoming livestream: Like, the first models that can find these kinds of vulnerabilities were really only introduced a couple of months ago. We sort of tried to see how often, we could reproduce these kinds of bugs with older models that were released… okay, so Sonnet 4.5 was released, like, only 6 months ago, and Opus 4.1 is less than a year old. Those ones can't find these bugs almost ever.
Incoming livestream: The new models released over the last 3 months, 4 months can.
Incoming livestream: So, like, it's, like, just on the edge of being able to do these kinds of bugs, and, like, this is not the last model that's going to exist. Like, there are going to be more, and they are going to keep on getting better, and, like, in a very, very real sense, we are, like, on this exponential.
Incoming livestream: You've probably seen this plot more times than you wanted to see it. It's this plot from Meter that shows, as a function of model release date, how long of a task that they can do that humans take. So, recent models, the most recent models can do tasks that take humans roughly 15 hours, and they can succeed at that roughly half of the time.
Incoming livestream: This is a nice plot by meter.
Incoming livestream: We tried to produce a similar version of this plot. Oh yeah, by the way, doubling time every four months. So, I don't know, be a little worried there if this trend continues. Maybe it doesn't, but, like, you know, if it continues for, like, another year, we're gonna, you know, have these models producing, like, you know, large amounts of code that, you know, better than most of us.
Incoming livestream: So, we tried to produce a similar kind of plot, where, instead of looking at, you know, how long of a duration of a task that models can do, we tried to look, okay, smart contracts? Okay, why smart contracts? Because they have dollar values associated with them.
Incoming livestream: And so you can ask, how much money can I steal from a smart contract by having a language model find and exploit a vulnerability?
Incoming livestream: And so, okay, this is from a paper by two of our math scholars, Winnie and Cole, and what they showed was that recent language models, can identify and exploit vulnerabilities and recover, like, several million dollars from, like, actual real smart contracts.
Incoming livestream: And that the rate of the ability to do this is, again, going exponentially. Note the log scale on the y-axis here again.
Incoming livestream: And so, like, these models are getting really, really good at doing these kinds of things, and again, I have no reason to believe that they're going to stop getting better at this continuing rate.
Incoming livestream: Okay, I'm, like, sort of coming back to the slide, because I think, like, this really is the thing I want you to take away. It's not where we are at this moment in time. Yes, at this moment in time, the models can find vulnerabilities in the Linux kernel. Yes, at this moment in time, they can find, you know, these critical CVEs, in really important software that people use, but, like, the rate of progress
Incoming livestream: is very large, and so you should expect that, like, the best models can do this today. The, like, average model you have on your laptop probably can do this in a year.
Incoming livestream: I'm a skeptical person, I didn't believe in language models for a very long time.
Incoming livestream: When I first saw language models, the only thing that I did with them was, like, I sort of prodded them and made fun of sort of how easily they broke. But, like, they actually are quite good right now. They, of course, have problems, but…
Incoming livestream: You can't just stick your head in the sand, like, these things are working really, really well.
Incoming livestream: And like…
Incoming livestream: you know, there are some people who say, you know, it's on an exponential. I agree the exponential's not gonna last forever,
Incoming livestream: I remember when CPUs were getting exponentially faster every couple of years, right? Like, this is the fastest CPU that Intel produced every year, starting from the 4004, up until the first Pentiums, in 2000. Very nice, clean, exponential. And then, of course, you know, the exponential tapers off, it's no longer exponential, what do you know?
Incoming livestream: There is going to be a band.
Incoming livestream: no one denies this, no exponential can continue forever. But…
Incoming livestream: It's very hard to predict when the bend is going to happen.
Incoming livestream: Like, maybe the bend happens in 6 months. Maybe in 6 months it's the case that the models are no longer getting exponentially better. Maybe it happens in 2 years. And when the bend happens will matter quite a lot for what capabilities these models have, and I think you should not assume that, like, it's definitely going to happen in a couple of months, because people have been saying this
Incoming livestream: forever. For, like, the last 10 years, people have been saying deep learning is going to hit a wall, and at least as of yet, it has not. And so, like, we should be willing to entertain the possibility that it might, especially as security people, right? Like, so I went to a conference at Crypto where I gave a talk.
Incoming livestream: And I observed that, like, 10 of the papers at this conference were on post-quantum cryptography.
Incoming livestream: I don't know if you know this, but, like, we don't have quantum computers.
Incoming livestream: And yet, cryptographers are working on post-quantum cryptography because they understand that it is worth investing in defending against something that we don't have in front of us right now. And yet, here is the thing that I have literally right in front of me right now, finding these kinds of bugs, and I often have to talk to security people, and they're in denial about it.
Incoming livestream: So, like, we really, really, like, we should really need to understand this is the exponential we're on.
Incoming livestream: There's a fun slide that I like to show. This is from, the, International Energy Agency, which every year, makes a prediction for how much, of various kinds of energy people are going to be using for generation.
Incoming livestream: And here's the plot for how much solar is actually being deployed versus their predictions. The red lines are their predictions from every point in time, white is what's actually true.
Incoming livestream: For more than half of the years, their prediction for what would happen in 2040 happened the next year.
Incoming livestream: From, like, you would think that they would have learned, like, the 15th time that this happened, that you should make a continued, like, exponential trend, but every year, they assume that things will continue at roughly the current rate. And every year, it goes up by, I don't know, another 30-40%.
Incoming livestream: We should not be them. Like, we should sort of understand that these things have been getting exponentially better. Every couple months, for the last couple of years. And it may be the case that things flatten out, but probably not, at least probably not, for, like, the next couple of months. So, like, we should, like, and I think, you know, these next couple of months will really be some of the most important couple of months for security.
Incoming livestream: Okay, I have 2 minutes left for a conclusion.
Incoming livestream: it's pretty clear to me that these current models are better vulnerability researchers than I am. I used to do this, you know, somewhat professionally, I have CVEs to my name, I do not have… well, okay, now I do, but I did not have CVEs in the Linux kernel. Like, these models are better vulnerability researchers than I am. It's probably not yet better than all of you, but at some point it will be.
Incoming livestream: Like, if we continue on this trend for even just another year, there'll probably be better vulnerability researchers than all of you.
Incoming livestream: And I don't know what that world looks like. Like, it's, like, quite scary to live in a world where you can automatically find bugs that, like, previously only, like, the top one or two, like, you know, people in the world could have found.
Incoming livestream: So maybe my call to action is help us make the future go well?
Incoming livestream: We're going to need all the help that we can get. For our part at Anthropic, there's Cloud Code Security that is trying to do something to find bugs. You heard earlier today from DeepMind, OpenAI has their, their Aardvark project.
Incoming livestream: speaking not as an Anthropic employee, like, I don't really care where you help, just please help.
Incoming livestream: Like, you know, it would be great if you would, like, to help us at Anthropic too, but, like, just… the world will need a lot of people to be doing a lot of this work, and it needs to happen soon. Like, order months. I think, like, waiting a year is going to be too long.
Incoming livestream: We are going to have a huge number of bugs. I have so many bugs in the Linux kernel that I can't report because I haven't validated them yet. I'm not gonna make some open source developer validate bugs that I haven't checked yet. Like, I'm not gonna send them, you know, potential slop, but this means that, like, I now have, I don't know, several hundred crashes that they haven't seen because I haven't had time to check them.
Incoming livestream: We need to find a way to fix this so that we can actually go through all this stuff, because soon, it's not just gonna be me who has all of this, but it's gonna be anyone malicious in the world who wants.
Incoming livestream: So, really, yeah.
Incoming livestream: I'd encourage you to find a… try and find a way to see if, you know, some particular set of skills that you have could, like, help us make sure that things go well over the next couple of months and over the next couple of years, because I am quite worried about how this direction is heading, and yeah, we need all the help we can get. Thank you.
Incoming livestream: While I wait for questions, I'll just leave this video playing in the background.
Incoming livestream: What should we be watching for? Just, just watch, it's fine. Let's take a question. That's hardly fair. Let's say, yeah, I'm sure there are questions. Let's, let's take some. I'll take from over here first.
Incoming livestream: Oh, hello?
Incoming livestream: Hi, I'm Nabil from Palo Alto Networks. So, I'm wondering, like, given the future where bugs will be found autonomously, like the one we can't find, as you mentioned.
Incoming livestream: is, like, since you guys have the visibility, should we think about something like to identify the malicious intent? Because it would be impossible for us to fix all the zero-day bugs in all the repos around the world. What's your thought? Because you guys have the control, what can we do in that regard?
Incoming livestream: Thank you. Yeah,
Incoming livestream: Yeah, so, identifying malicious intent is hard, because security is dual use. I want to allow people to use the models to find bugs to fix things.
Incoming livestream: if they're the developer of the software, I would ideally not like to let someone use the software to go and exploit things. And for a very long time in security, like, we've always understood that the dual-use nature favored the defender. You know.
Incoming livestream: Pick any software that exists.
Incoming livestream: it generally favors the defender more than the attacker. I think this has been true, and this has been the way that we've been operating in the past. It's unclear if this will always be true in the future, especially for language models as we go forwards.
Incoming livestream: And so I do want to make sure that people can't use these things for harm, and indeed, like, you know, Anthropic's models and OpenAI's models and DeepMind's models, will generally refuse if you're, like, very explicitly doing nasty things. Clearly they need to get better if they're going to be able to refuse everything, but,
Incoming livestream: you know, it… I don't want to, like, not let people be honest defenders, because…
Incoming livestream: Okay, so the way I think about this is.
Incoming livestream: If I put a safeguard in place that's very, very weak, it will only stop the good people from using the software. The bad people are just gonna jailbreak the model, and are gonna still attack it anyway.
Incoming livestream: And so I… but the good people won't. They're not gonna circumvent the safeguards. And so I want to make sure the good people have access to the software, but if I put too strong safeguards in place, then they don't have access to the software. And so I think it's, like, just… it's very nuanced how you want to do this.
Incoming livestream: And everyone is, like, trying their best to find the right balance, and I think we're doing an okay job, but, you know, I think this is one of the areas where we need a lot more help to figure out how to do this better.
Incoming livestream: Michael Siegel from MIT. Just wanted to ask,
Incoming livestream: comment on both the speed, that is, as this becomes faster, the bad guys will have things faster, and they'll also be concerned that they will be fixed faster. So, for a period of time, we're going to be dealing a lot with changes in speed.
Incoming livestream: And then, what's sort of the end game? Do we… there's been a long-term argument about whether vulnerabilities are dense or sparse, and ultimately, if we get this good at things, do we really get down to really almost no vulnerabilities?
Incoming livestream: Yeah. Okay, great question.
Incoming livestream: I tend to think, and many people tend to think, that in the long term, probably the defenders win.
Incoming livestream: But, like, you know, in the limit, I'll just, like, rewrite all the software in Rust, and I just, like, get rid of memory corruption vulnerabilities, and in the limit, I'll, like, you know, formally verify all of my protocols, you know, TLS has proved now to be safe under, like, you know, various assumptions. Like, I'll prove everything, and, like, in the limit, like, this is good.
Incoming livestream: But, like, in the transitionary period between now and then, things probably are very bad.
Incoming livestream: And, like, this is, I think, why I particularly want people to help, like, immediately, is because the transitionary period is where I'm most worried, and, like, we are in the transitionary period now. And so I think, like, yeah, we need quite a lot of help making sure that even if things will go well in the future.
Incoming livestream: that the things will be, at least not bad now. You know, I think the other analogy people like to give is, you know, the Industrial Revolution, all else equal, was a good thing, but for the people who were living through it, it was, like, kind of hard.
Incoming livestream: We sort of, like, want to make things go well, you know, for the people who are living through the thing, but not, you know, but still, like, get us to the nice end state. And just, yeah, making that happen is going to be, yeah, challenging. Yeah, thank you.